\section{Introduction}

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that
affected over 8.5 million people globally in 2019 \cite{WHO2022}, with numbers
increasing due to aging populations and improved diagnostics. Around 90\% of
individuals with PD experience speech impairment \cite{IndianaParkinson},
primarily hypokinetic dysarthria, which involves reduced vocal loudness,
monotone speech, imprecise articulation, and fluctuating speech rates.
Detecting PD early through speech analysis can significantly improve access to
treatment and may help slow disease progression.

Various machine learning methods have been applied to PD detection using speech
features. Support Vector Machines (SVM) classify patients based on acoustic
features like Mel Frequency Cepstral Coefficients (MFCC) and
AutoEncoder-derived patterns \cite{SpringerSpeechProcessing}. Deep Neural
Networks (DNN) capture complex patterns in speech data for accurate
classification \cite{AIPDNN}, while Random Forests (RF) help identify key
speech features and assist in distinguishing PD-related symptoms
\cite{SpringerMLPD}.

Building upon these approaches, this project investigates the potential of
K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) for PD detection. Three distinct KNN models will be
developed: one trained on cleaned data, another on aggregated data, and a third
on normalized data. As a simple and non-parametric algorithm, KNN makes minimal
assumptions about the underlying data distribution, which makes it particularly
well-suited for smaller datasets and multi-class classification tasks.
Furthermore, an API will be implemented to allow users to input their own
values and test the models interactively, providing a practical and
user-friendly tool for PD prediction. \cref{fig:fig1} illustrates the project
timeline and task distribution, covering the period from 8/01/2025 to
19/01/2025.

\usetikzlibrary{arrows, positioning, shapes.geometric,
	decorations.pathreplacing}

\begin{figure}[H]
	\centering
	\begin{adjustbox}{scale=0.80}
		\begin{ganttchart}[
				vgrid,
				hgrid,
				x unit = 0.7cm,
				y unit title = 0.6cm,
				y unit chart = 0.6cm,
				title/.append style = {fill = gray!40},
				title height = 1,
				bar height = 0.4,
				bar/.append style = {fill = green!90, rounded corners = 3pt},
				bar incomplete/.append style = {fill = gray!50},
				bar label node/.append style = {align = left, text width = 12em},
				bar label font = \footnotesize,
				progress label text = {},
				milestone label font = \bfseries\small,
				milestone label node/.append style = {align = left, text width = 12em},
				milestone height = 0.8,
				milestone top shift = 0.2,
				milestone/.append style = {fill = red, xscale=0.85},
				group/.append style = {draw = black, fill = yellow!90},
				group label node/.append style = {align = left, text width = 12em},
				group height = .3,
				group peaks height = .2,
				group label font = \bfseries\small,
				group left shift = 0,
				group right shift = 0,
				group top shift = .3,
				group height = .2,
			]{1}{12}

			\gantttitle[
				title label text = {Day},
				title label font = \bfseries\footnotesize
			]{8}{12} \\
			\gantttitlelist[title label font =
				\tiny]{8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19}{1} \\

			\ganttgroup{Processing}{1}{5} \\
			\ganttbar{Renaming (Scarlett)}{1}{1} \\
			\ganttbar{Outlier Correction (Scarlett)}{2}{2} \\
			\ganttbar{Aggregating (Roger)}{3}{3} \\
			\ganttbar{Normalizing (Rahul)}{4}{5} \\

			\ganttgroup{Model}{6}{7} \\
			\ganttbar{Collinearity (Roger)}{6}{6} \\
			\ganttbar{Training (Annabel)}{7}{7} \\

			\ganttgroup{API}{8}{9} \\
			\ganttbar{Front-end (Rahul/Annabel)}{8}{8} \\
			\ganttbar{Back-end (Rahul/Annabel)}{9}{9} \\

			\ganttgroup{Report and Video}{10}{12} \\
			\ganttbar{Writing Report (All)}{10}{11} \\
			\ganttbar{Recording Video (Roger)}{12}{12} \\

			\ganttmilestone{Completion}{12}
		\end{ganttchart}
	\end{adjustbox}
	\caption{Gantt chart of the project.}
	\label{fig:fig1}
\end{figure}
